update dashboard eud (#119)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: dashboard-for-desktop/articles/dashboard-designer/data-shaping/filtering.md

legacyId: 16532
---
# Filtering
The Dashboard Designer allows you to filter data in the dashboard items or apply filters to a specific measure. [Dimensions](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/binding-dashboard-items-to-data.md) and [hidden dimensions](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/hidden-data-items.md) are used to build filter criteria.

## Dashboard Item Filter

Filters that apply to a [dashboard item](../designing-dashboard-items.md) affect only this item. To add filters, select the target dashboard item and do one of the following:

> * Click the **Edit Filter** button in the **Data** tab in a Ribbon menu. 

Reviewer: To avoid saying "in" twice, I'd like to change the second one to "of":

```suggestion
* Click the **Edit Filter** button in the **Data** tab of a Ribbon menu. 
```

> [!Tip]
> **Documentation**: [Filter Editor](../../../../interface-elements-for-desktop/articles/filter-editor/filter-data-via-the-filter-editor.md) 

To clear the applied filter, select **Clear** from the dashboard item's context menu or click the **Clear** button in the **Data** Ribbon tab.

## Measure Filter

You can apply filters to individual [measures](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/binding-dashboard-items-to-data.md). If you create multiple measures that only differ in applied filters, you can compare values calculated over different date-time periods or against different categories.

Select a dashboard item and right-click a measure to be filtered. Select **Edit Filter** from its context menu.

![win-filter-to-measure-menu](../../../images/win-filter-to-measure-menu.png)

This invokes the **Filter Editor** dialog where you can specify filter criteria:

![win-filter-editor-for-measure](../../../images/win-filter-editor-for-measure.png)

The filtered measure has the _Filter_ icon:

![win-filtered-measure-icon](../../../images/win-filtered-measure-icon.png)

To clear the applied filter, select **Clear** from the measure's context menu.

> [!Note]

> > The measure filter is technically an expression that uses the `filter(summaryExpression, filterCriteria)` function where `summaryExpression` is a measure to be filtered and `filterCriteria` is a filter. See [Expression Constants, Operators, and Functions](../data-analysis/expression-constants-operators-and-functions.md) for more information about functions you can use in dashboard expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The measure filter is technically an expression that uses the `filter(summaryExpression, filterCriteria)` function, where `summaryExpression` is the measure to be filtered and `filterCriteria` is the filter. See the following topic for more information about functions you can use in dashboard expressions: [Expression Constants, Operators, and Functions](../data-analysis/expression-constants-operators-and-functions.md).
```

The image below shows a Chart with three measures:  
 
- _2019 - Opened_ is filtered by year 2019.
- _2020 - Opened_ is filtered by year 2020.
- _Opened_ is the original measure without filters.

![win-filter-to-measure-year](../../../images/win-filter-to-measure-year.png)

## Visible Data Filter

You can specify a Visible Data Filter to limit displayed data. This filter type does not filter underlying data used in calculations or intermediate level aggregations.

> Click the **Set Visible Data Filter** button in the **Data** tab in a Ribbon menu to invoke the Visible Data Filter Editor where you can set a filter condition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Set Visible Data Filter** button in the Ribbon menu's **Data** tab to invoke the Visible Data Filter Editor, where you can set a filter condition:
```

![win-filter-visible-data-filter-ribbon-button](../../../images/win-filter-visible-data-filter-ribbon-button.png)

For example, a Grid dashboard item has 35 rows and displays sales percentages.

![win-filter-visible-data-filter-original-grid](../../../images/win-filter-visible-data-filter-original-grid.png)

The image below shows the difference between filters (the filter condition is the same): 

> - **Dashboard Item Filter**: sales percentages are re-calculated based on the visible data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dashboard Item Filter**: sales percentages are recalculated based on the visible data.
```

- **Visible Data Filter**: sales percentages remain the same because this filter type does not affect calculations.

![win-filter-visible-data-filter-grids](../../../images/win-filter-visible-data-filter-grids.png)

## Pass Parameter Values

> You can use the Filter Editor to filter a dashboard item according to the current parameter value. See the [Pass Parameter Values](../data-analysis/using-dashboard-parameters/passing-parameter-values.md) topic for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Filter Editor to filter a dashboard item according to the current parameter value. See the following topic for details: [Pass Parameter Values](../data-analysis/using-dashboard-parameters/passing-parameter-values.md).
```

## OLAP Filtering Specifics

> You cannot apply filtering by building complex filter criteria in [OLAP](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/binding-dashboard-items-to-data-in-olap-mode.md) mode. Instead, you can filter dimension attributes and hierarchies by manually selecting the values you wish (or do not wish) to include in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot filter data by building complex filter criteria in [OLAP](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/binding-dashboard-items-to-data-in-olap-mode.md) mode. Instead, you can select the values you wish (or do not wish) to include in the dashboard to filter dimension attributes and hierarchies.
```
